[THEME MUSIC]
RICHARD DOLAN: A
number of years ago
when I was doing some
deep research into the UFO
subject and the
cover-up, and trying
to understand how this
cover-up actually worked,
I developed an idea which
is known as the Breakaway
Civilization, and we'll talk
a little bit about this.
What is a Breakaway
Civilization?
Does it really exist?
And how might we
be able to prove
its existence in the future?
Well, I guess it all
started many, many years ago
when I had a conversation
with a scientist who
had done a great deal of
civilian work for the NSA back
in the 1960s, that is the
National Security Agency.
Back in the mid-'60s, hardly
anyone knew of the existence
of the NSA.
And in fact, it was so
secret that one of the jokes
is that it stood
for No Such Agency.
This scientist worked
there during the mid-1960s,
and in a conversation that I
had with him some time ago,
he almost offhandedly
mentioned that at that time
they were running
computers with a clock
speed of about 650 megahertz.
Now, not everyone's
a computer expert
but if you want to put
that in perspective,
650 megahertz clock speed in
the 1960s was ridiculously fast.
In fact, the consumer
market for computers
didn't achieve that
clock speed in general
until around the year
2000, about 35 years later.
And in fact, in
1965, well, there
were no consumer
computers at all anywhere.
So this is basically you
have a secret organization
that practically
no one knew existed
that had some of the fastest
computers in the world,
maybe the fastest
computers in the world.
And I thought that's a really
amazing thing to think about.
And of course, we are
constantly being made aware
that technology in
the classified world
is often very, very
far advanced over what
is available in the
non-classified world.
And it's hard always to
get details and specifics
but it's definitely true that
these hints and suggestions
have come out for
many, many years.
And so it seems to be
the case that there
are classified
breakthroughs in technology
that many years later might
seep out to the general public.
So with that idea, I thought
about a few other things.
I thought about the history
of civilizations in general.
If you think about it, there
are several many distinct human
civilizations that have existed
and they have different things
that define them.
They have different
levels of technology,
they have different
cosmology, that
is ideas about how human beings
fit into this universe of ours.
They have different
social attitudes
and social interactions
and rules and regulations
and so on.
It's really hard to quantify
what exactly constitutes
a distinctive civilization.
But I also think that,
generally speaking,
people have an idea of
what is a civilization.
It also became clear to me
that throughout our history,
especially the last few hundred
years, all the various cultures
and civilizations have been
ever so slowly merging together.
We call it globalization today
but even 100 years ago, this
was a process that was going
on, even 200 years ago.
Cultures were interacting
and learning from each other
and you could see that there
was a kind of coming together
of these various civilizations.
However, we also have the
example of the Cold War
where certain scientific
infrastructures
and civilizations
even spread apart.
You think of the
Western civilization
versus the Soviet society
or civilization that
was in Russia.
We know that the
Russians and the West
had very different, in
fact very secretive,
scientific
infrastructures where they
studied often different
things and went
in different directions.
This was also true
of the Germans
during the Second World War.
You have a very secretive
scientific and often industrial
infrastructure that
often doesn't connect
with other parts of the world.
So there can be this
separation as well, even
in the last century.
So I started wondering, let's
put a few things together here
with the UFO situation.
Are there crash
retrievals of UFOs?
Well, I've always believed
that the answer to that is yes.
Is there deep intense secrecy
about maintaining control
over those technologies
that have been acquired?
And I've always believed,
yes, that's the case too.
Now here's where it
gets really interesting.
What if there were interesting
breakthroughs and new ideas
in areas of energy production or
propulsion or material science
or a whole array of
other things that
might be related to alien tech?
Would those breakthroughs
necessarily and immediately
translate to the
rest of the world?
And the answer I think clearly
is no, not necessarily at all.
Not at all.
In fact, what would
be more likely is
that some of those breakthroughs
would be kept secret.
And those scientists
within that infrastructure
would be in on the
secret and they
would be exploiting
that technology
for their own benefit.
They would be exploiting
that technology also
under orders probably
of their superiors
not to have that
seep out to the world
because it's probably a
little bit too disruptive.
Think about energy.
What if in the 1950s
and 1960s or even 1970s,
some group of genius
scientists figured out
on the basis of
acquired ET technology
that there was, in fact,
a really great energy
solution, something
that we would
call free energy that
was implicit in the study
of this technology?
They might think, wow,
this is a great thing.
Let's get this out to
the rest of the world.
But it's not hard to see
that their supervisors would
say no, no, no, no, no.
That's way too disruptive.
By the way, we already
have a petroleum industry
that takes care of the
energy needs for the world.
We don't want to rock the boat.
Your job is simply to
work on this development
and go deeper with it and
see how far we can go.
And so what you
would have is a group
of classified scientists in
a very protected environment
while the rest of the
world is being prevented
from seeing what they're doing.
And they are just moving ahead,
moving ahead, moving ahead.
If you want to get
far down the road
in the world of
scientific breakthroughs,
you probably are going
to need a whole series
of other breakthroughs
that preceded.
But what if the
rest of the world
is prevented from
those by secrecy?
So there's a situation
where a very restricted
scientific community working
within the classified world
has access to
knowledge, has access
to technology that the rest
of us don't have access to.
And it's not hard to see that
if the rest of us are prevented
and they keep going,
well, maybe there's
no limit as to how far they
can go as long as they keep
that wall up preventing
the rest of us
from getting that knowledge.
And that's the beginnings
of what I've called
a breakaway civilization.
Again what is it
that constitutes
a separate civilization,
a distinct civilization?
Well, it's hard
to know for sure.
But again, I would
say technology
has something to do with it.
Your idea of where you
are in the universe
has something to do with it.
So what if this breakthrough
allows them to have
a flying saucer of some sort?
I mean, this is really what
we're talking about, right?
So if it's possible that a
flying saucer of some sort
was actually created at
any time in the 1950s
or '60s or '70s based on a
study of alien technology,
well, it's more than
them just having
a flying saucer because
that flying saucer allows
them to do things.
It allows them to travel.
Maybe they can travel to other
parts of the solar system,
or the far side of
the moon, or looking
at the ancient monuments of
Mars, or anything of that sort.
That flying saucer, in other
words, gives them knowledge.
It gives them a
different understanding
of this universe
that we live in.
A very radically
different understanding
than the rest of the
people of the world.
So different that
I think, yes, we
might be able to consider
this classified community
a separate
civilization, one that
has broken away from the rest of
us: the breakaway civilization.
And that was the
germ of this idea
that I formulated back
in 2007, 2008, 2009.
It's interesting
that there are people
who talk about a breakaway
civilization more and more
in the UFO community at large.
And I think that's a good thing.
But I've always
wanted to come back
to there's the theory of
the breakaway civilization
and then there's
evidence that we always
want to find for such a thing
to prove that theory right.
My feeling is
we're still looking
for stronger and
stronger evidence
but I do think
that we're looking
in the right directions.
I think that the case for
a breakaway civilization
is a reasonable one;
that is, I think
we'd be very foolish to discount
the idea that there is a very
advanced--
highly advanced,
classified component
to our civilization
that has knowledge
of the extraterrestrial
presence,
that has had access to at
least some extraterrestrial
technology, has been
able to work with it,
has been able to come up
with some breakthroughs based
on that, that has allowed them
to go further in their science
than the rest of us.
Keep in mind, in an era
now, and as we're well
into the 21st century
where globalization is now
in the process of
creating more and more
a unified legal structure
to much of the world,
where things like
intellectual property rights
are being enforced globally,
consider that that actually
can have a really huge effect
on a breakaway civilization.
So that if some brilliant person
in some other part of the world
outside of the United
States comes up
with scientific ideas
that might impinge
on classified patents
within the United States
due to their study of ET tech,
it is entirely possible now
that those scientists would
be prevented from pursuing
those breakthroughs.
This is really what's
happening in our world today.
We're developing a
truly global system
that will provide IP protections
for the breakaway society,
the breakaway civilization.
I think we've got to be
very careful about that
moving forward.
There are a lot of
claims that people
have made about a
breakaway civilization
that I just don't know can
they be true or not true.
Are there portals
to other dimensions?
Do we really have the
ability to take ourselves
throughout the solar system
or beyond as some people have
claimed?
I'm always waiting for
credible individuals
to provide me with
something to work with.
I feel that when
claims are made,
it's the obligation
of those individuals
to give some kind
of genuine evidence
that other people can
test and to work with.
And there's a lot of claims
that fail that test in my view.
They don't really
provide enough evidence.
Having said that, I do think
that there is a very good case
to be made for the fact
that there's a secret space
program of some capacity with
some advanced technology that
is in operation.
And that this
secret space program
has some level of
interaction with what we
would call the UFO phenomenon.
Whether collaboration or
competition is a really good
question to ask, and
I wouldn't pretend
that I know the answer to that.
But we do have good
reason to believe
that there are a lot of
anomalous objects in Earth
orbit and beyond.
And so I think it's
quite reasonable
to assume that any clandestine
space program is going
to have interaction with
that phenomenon in one
way or another.
There's a lot of things
going on in our world that
are behind that curtain, that
we are not permitted to look at,
we're not permitted
to investigate.
Because of that secrecy it's
difficult, it's hard for us
to do the research to
know exactly what's true
and what's not true.
And in that kind of
environment, it's
really easy for truly wild and
unsupported claims to be made.
So my advice would be,
just because someone
makes a claim that might
sound really crazy to you,
it may not be true,
that's for sure,
but that doesn't mean we want
to throw the entire concept out.
We live in a world
of secrecy; we
live in a world that lacks
transparency in so many ways.
The UFO phenomenon has been
cloaked in secrecy since we've
been aware of it in the 1940s.
There has been a deep level
of study within the classified
world, largely privatized with
a lot of government interaction
that has also squirreled away a
lot of the technology and a lot
of the knowledge that has
been acquired over the years.
And we are blocked out from
accessing most of that,
it seems to me.
So there's a really good
case for what we would
call a breakaway civilization.
Does this mean that such
a breakaway civilization
is people living on Mars like
in an alternative three-type
setting?
Or are they on the backside of
the moon or anything like that?
And I would say,
well, I have no idea.
I suspect, though, that the
action is always on Earth.
This is where the
action is, our planet.
You could be living right
next door to someone
who belongs to the breakaway
civilization for all we know.
In other words,
someone who might
have a military job
or classified job.
They go to work;
they punch the clock;
they're in their
classified program.
Within that classified
program, they
may punch another clock so
to speak for a more deeply
classified program within that.
And it's possible that
they then punch yet
another clock for a still
more deeply classified program
within that where
they're now dealing
with truly advanced
technologies that would
seem magical to you and me.
That could very well be how the
breakaway civilization operates
for all we know.
These people come back
home, they mow their lawns,
they say hello to
their neighbors.
They kiss their spouse
when they get back.
All of that totally
true, totally possible.
A breakaway civilization
doesn't have
to be completely exotic
filled with wormholes
and Star Trek-like technology.
We need more time and
resources really to dive
into this concept.
I think it's a powerful
concept and I also
happen to believe it's true.
[THEME MUSIC]